better is a dry morsel with quietness
than a house full of feasting with
strife a wise servant will rule over a
son who causes shame and will share an
inheritance among the brothers the
refining pot is for silver and the
furnace for gold but the Lord tests the
hearts
an evildoer gives heed to false lips
Alya listens eagerly to a spiteful
tongue he who mocks the poor reproaches
his maker he who is glad at calamity
will not go unpunished
[Music]
children's children are the crown of old
men and the glory of children is their
father excellent speech is not becoming
to a fool
much less lying lips to a prince a
present is a precious stone in the eyes
of its possessor wherever he turns he
prospers he who covers a transgression
seeks love but he who repeats a matter
separates friends rebuke is more
effective for a wise man than a hundred
blows on a fool an evil man seeks only
rebellion therefore a cruel messenger
will be sent against him let a man meet
a bear robbed of her cubs rather than a
fool in his folly
whoever rewards evil for good evil will
not depart from his house
the beginning of strife is like
releasing water therefore stop
contention before a quarrel starts he
who justifies the wicked and he who
condemns the just both of them alike
are an abomination to the Lord why is
there in the hand of a fool the purchase
price of wisdom since he has no heart
for it a friend loves at all times and a
brother is born for adversity a man
devoid of understanding shakes hands in
a pledge and becomes surety for his
friend he who loves transgression loves
strife and he who exalts his gate seeks
destruction he who has a deceitful heart
finds no good and he who has a perverse
tongue falls into evil he who baguettes
a scoffer
does so to his sorrow and the father of
a fool has no joy a merry heart does
good like medicine but a broken spirit
dries the bones
a wicked man accepts a bribe
behind-the-back to pervert the ways of
justice wisdom is in the sight of him
who has understanding but the eyes of a
fool are on the ends of the earth a
foolish son is a grief to his father and
bitterness to her who bore him also to
punish the righteous is not good nor to
strike Prince's for their uprightness he
who has knowledge spares his words and a
man of understanding is of a calm spirit
even a fool is counted wise when he
holds his peace when he shuts his lips
he is considered perceptive
you